Blessed with amazing beaches, pristine wilderness, unique wildlife and a warm, friendly culture, Costa Rica has quickly become a leading family travel destination.
To help you plan your family's next vacation, start here with my Costa Rica family travel guide.
Top Things to See and Do in Costa Rica
Thanks to a significant amount of thermal activity, Costa Rica is dotted with a large number of volcanoes and thermal hot springs. These hot springs, which come in every size, shape and temperature imaginable, are a fun way to experience another element of Costa Rica's amazing natural beauty. But not all hot springs are made equal when it comes to visiting with children. Here are the best Costa Rica Hot Springs for families.
Manuel Antonio National Park is widely considered Costa Rica's piece de resistance. One of the most bio-diverse parks on the planet, lush tropical forests, clear lagoons, mangrove forests and pristine white sandy beaches are all found within the boundaries of Manual Antonio. Here are four great things to do in Manuel Antonio Costa Rica.
In recent years, a number of world-class yoga studios have opened across Costa Rica. Across the country you'll find that the yogic principles and lifestyle are simple to lear and ascribe to when surrounded by such calm and natural beauty. Here are 4 of the best spots to find your yoga in Costa Rica.
Costa Rica Family Travel Tips
Planning a trip to Costa Rica that keeps everyone in the family happy can seem like a challenge. Here is a sample Costa Rica family itinerary that has something to offer the entire family, while balancing the must-see spots with more off-the-beaten-path experiences.
Nestled between the Pacific and the Caribbean, Costa Rica has literally hundreds of beaches. If your family loves a good beach as much as mine, be sure to check out these best beaches in Costa Rica. 
Where to Stay in Costa Rica
While in the Arenal/ La Fortuna area you can ogle a picture perfect volcano, spend the days exploring the jungle, wallowing in mud baths and rinsing off in the numerous hot springs in the region. More adventurous families can enjoy ATV tours, zip lines and river rafting here. There are a number of hotels at a range of price points in the area, but only a few are ideal for family travelers. Here are my picks for the best hotels in Arenal Costa Rica for families.
Manuel Antonio National Park is a must-see on any Costa Rica travel itinerary. Located on Costa Rica's Central Pacific Coast, these tangled mangrove waterways and wild rivers found in the park are very easy to access. While there are a large number of hotels in the Manuel Antonio area, a few stand out as clear leaders when it comes to kid-friendly options. Here are the three best Manuel Antonio hotels for kids.
Want more? Consider traveling with the family to Mexico. Check out my Riviera Maya Family Travel Guide here.
While traveling through Central America with my family this summer, we'll be checking out the beaches of Panama and swinging from ziplines in the jungles of Costa Rica.  When we head up to Nicaragua, we'll be slowing down and learning about the country's history and rich culture.
If you're considering traveling to Nicaragua with your family, start here with my Nicaragua family travel guide.
Top Things to See and Do in Nicaragua
Starting at picturesque little San Juan del Sur and stretching north towards El Salvador, Nicaragua's Pacific Coast offers plenty to do and see for the entire family. From lazy days on the beach to viewing unique jungle wildlife, the secret of Nicaragua is out. This is an awesome place to visit, especially for families.
San Juan del Sur is a small coastal town in Nicaragua that is a wonderful family vacation spot with tons of things to do with kids.
There is plenty to see and do in Granada Nicaragua for the whole family. This city is an ideal base for exploring the lake's islets, hiking to a volcano and visiting nearby communities and markets. Here are my family's top 6 things to do in Granada Nicaragua.
If you're planning on visiting Ometepe Island Nicaragura with kids, there is plenty to do. Make it a day trip from Granada or spend a few days on the island for even more exploration. Here are the top three things you must do while visiting Ometepe Island Nicaragua with your kids.
Specifically in Nicaragua, we're keen to explore the history and culture of Central America. But we want to be sure to keep the pacing and the activities on the journey kid-friendly and interesting to them. I've uncovered a few cultural and historical sites in Nicaragua that the kids will actually enjoy!
Where to Stay in Nicaragua
Ometepe Island is a must-visit if you're traveling around Nicaragua. This volcanic island offers a ton to do with an authentic, laid-back atmosphere. Thanks to it's remote location, the island only accessible by ferry boat, the island has retained it's authenticity and rustic charm. But while there are plenty of hotel, only a few are really suitable for family travelers. Here are my picks for best hotels on Ometepe Island for families. 
Nicaragua Travel Tips
Nicaragua is set to become the next big thing. But of course with that comes change. So NOW is perhaps the perfect time to visit Nicaragua. As my family gears up for an epic adventure through Central America, I thought I'd share some of the research I've been doing with regards the best Nicaragua travel itinerary for families covering Granada, Ometepe Island and the Pacific Coast.
Want more? Check out my Costa Rica Family Travel guide here!
"Cheesy kid-friendy all inclusive resort."
So I've been thinking a lot about a conversation I saw on Facebook recently.
Some of my friends are heading to Mexico for a family beach getaway this spring.  Like many travelers, as they started researching travel options they reached out to their Facebook friends for advice.
They made a relatively quick decision and booked the trip. When someone asked what they had settled on, she reported  they had booked a "cheesy kid-friendly all inclusive resort." She couldn't even remember the name of it.
Now that's just sad. I'm sure this isn't how the resort would describe themselves, and it sounds like my friends aren't even looking forward to the trip. Isn't the anticipation as important as the trip itself? But this nameless and faceless destination simply checked the box of being on the beach. They talk about the trip with the same level of anticipation as a trip to the grocery store.
So for those of you like my friends, looking for a kid-friendly place to stay in Mexico, sit tight. I'm pulling this together as we speak. And they will be worthy of your anticipation, I promise
Confused on where we are? I'm catching up on the black hole of content from May of 2016 to April of 2017, when I jumped forward to blog the summer of 2017 as it was happening. This is my last post from 2016 - blogging at lighting speed here, right? I can't wait to turn my detailed notes and journals into more blog posts Thailand and Bali next. My apologies for any confusion with the timeline, and thanks for sticking with me.
By the way, craving some Southeast Asia adventure in your life? My Bali Blogging + Entrepreneurship retreat is still accepting applications and my Thailand Dive + Yoga retreat in August has spots remaining!
After our sister spa getaway in Koh Samui, Olivia and I were ready to face the full-on chaos of Koh Tao over the holidays. By now I've clocked four or five Christmases on my island home away from home - I can't keep count - and I was thrilled to have my sister near for what we knew would be a tough holiday season.
Longtail boat in a storm on Koh Tao
We had a few days before the true Christmas madness kicked off, and I wanted to make the most of them. Olivia strongly objected to any hiking on the itinerary, so I settled on the John Suwan Viewpoint, easily accessible via what I'd refer to as a seven minute walk from the parking lot, but which I quickly learned some people may, in fact, consider a hike.
Maybe I'll consider adding it to my series.
The best part about the strenuous journey to John Suwan? When you stumble down that treacherous mountain, you can recover from the enormous exertion on the shores of Freedom Beach, famed for its white sand and the shade of the unique pemphis acidula trees.
And okay, yes, I am giving my sister a hard time, but what else are sisters for?
Hiking and beaches aside, we made time for plenty of sunsets...
Nights out at our beloved Banyan Bar...
and crazy field trips around the island! One day, I braved the scary drive to Sai Daeng Resort (honestly, after all these years I'm still a baby when it comes to tackling Koh Tao's hills on my motorbike) to investigate a rumor I'd heard - that there was an enormous waterslide ripe for the sneaking into on Koh Tao.
It was true, and Olivia and I and our friends who also had a sister in town, spent hours shrieking our way down the slide. Needless to say it was a permit-less built and it only lasted a few months before authorities ordered its removal. Ah well, it was fun while it lasted.
And then, suddenly it was Christmas in paradise. We might have palm trees instead of pines, but Koh Tao has such a fun and unique way of celebrating the holidays, you really do get into the Christmas spirit without a snowflake in sight.
Christmas Eve kicked off with a big, joyous barbecue at Ian's house, where I learned an invaluable lesson about trying to frost a cake with buttercream in the tropics. Note to self: next time, bring a cheese board instead.
We might cobble the decor together with goodies stashed in suitcases from home and handmade creations crafted from old greetings cards and random bits and bobs found in 99 Baht shops around the island, but dang it if we don't know how to rock some serious Santa hats... and, apparently, Santa Mankinis.
Christmas Eve ended, as Koh Tao Christmas Eves tend to, on the beach, watching sunset with a drink in hand. And, if you're lucky, a little sister to twin with.
Well, it didn't really end at the beach. Christmas Eve is one of the biggest nights out of the year on Koh Tao, so it usually ends dancing on a table on a bar on the beach somewhere, more accurately.
The next morning, I defied the odds and made it to my beloved annual tradition, my friend Cynthia's Christmas themed yoga class at Ocean Sound Yoga. Between the incredible holiday playlist, the joy of starting the day with a practice in my home studio, and the fun Christmas costumes spread around the mats, it's one of the best parts of my Koh Tao Christmas.
And then it was time to cool down with a girly gossip by the pool.
Christmas night was a little more low-key, we stuck close to home with Christmas dinner and a family dance party at Banyan Bar. Dang, I miss that place. I'm not crying, you're crying!
Post-Christmas, we took a few days to recover - AKA work from bed, one of the greatest joys of self-employment - because New Year's Eve was right round the corner.
I've often waxed poetic about the joys of New Year's Eve on Koh Tao. There's no drama, no bouncers, no lines, no admission fees - just slightly more people than usual, better dressed than usual, crowded barefoot on the beach to ring in a new year.
Plus, Olivia surprised me with her Christmas gift - custom A+O necklaces designed together with our talented friend Amy. Honestly, this crying has to stop.
For many, the greatest draw to Egypt is the pyramids and the many other temples and ruins that stand as testament to one of the most fascinating civilizations of all time. For some, another world beckons - the one found under the surface of the Red Sea.
For scuba divers, the Red Sea is one of the world's dive meccas, somewhere every aquaholic dreams of making a pilgrimage some day.
While the Red Sea has so many corners to explore, for this trip, my friend Kat and I decided to focus on the Sinai Peninsula and split our time between two bases: Dahab and Sharm El Sheikh. The truth is, Sharm El Sheikh didn't really sound like my kind of place. It's a fairly built-up, brash beach town where direct flights once brought package tourists from all over Europe to frolic in all-inclusives, leaving only to visit water parks rising out of the vast desert like mirages. Think the Cancun of the Middle East.
But everyone we spoke to agreed that while Dahab had the best traveler vibes in Egypt and a series of incredible and unique dive experiences, the waters off Sharm El Sheikh boasted the areas healthiest and most vibrant reefs, as well as some world-famous wrecks. We simply couldn't miss those, so we vowed to do Sharm El Sheikh our way.
Kat and I met up at the Cairo airport after I said goodbye to my Travel Talk crew, and hopped a quick, cheap and easy flight to Sharm El Sheikh airport. Since we weren't too fussed with spending large amounts of time on land in Sharm, we'd booked a mini-liveaboard - but more on that later. We still had a night in Sharm El Sheikh on each end, and dang if we weren't going to make the most of it.
Though we briefly discussed taking advantage of the incredible prices at the mega-resorts dotting the shores of Sharm, we stuck to our roots and landed at a charming little boutique guesthouse, Sinai Old Spices.
This place is the real deal - it's tucked deep in an authentic Bedouin village, with herds of goats roaming the streets and locals smiling curiously at the foreigners arriving by taxi. Sinai Old Spices is run by a lovely Italian woman named Desi who has created a colorful oasis with a handful of uniquely decorated rooms, a lush pool, a restaurant serving beautiful fresh food, and hidden zones for relaxation around every corner.
This is really saying something for a girl who normally can't be pulled off the beach, but I can't imagine staying anywhere else in Sharm El Sheikh. For $40USD a night including an unbelievable breakfast spread, it was a steal.
Sinai Old Spices Pool Sharm el Sheikh Egypt
I could have hung around Sinai Old Spices all day, but with really only one day to explore Sharm, we set off quickly. Unlike in Cairo, Uber doesn't exist in Sinai, so we negotiated a flat rate with our hilariously crabby taxi driver from the airport instead (our flight had been delayed and our baggage had come out at the wrong terminal, and when we finally emerged victoriously from the airport his greeting was to chastise us for being late, ha.)
Though I'd heard so-so reviews of the local Old Market and the Sahaba Mosque, I wanted to give Kat a well-rounded first trip to Egypt, so we decided to give it a go.
Sadly, Sharm El Sheik and Sinai on the whole have struggled to recover from the ongoing conflict between Islamist militants and Egyptian security forces, which has included attacks on civilians and tourists. Bombings in the resort town of Taba in 2004, a series of bombings across Sharm in 2005, the bombing of a plane flying into Sharm el Sheikh Airport in 2015, and a mosque attack in 2017 that killed hundreds of locals (which spooked travelers despite being hours away from any tourist destinations) have turned a once vibrant beach town into a ghost town.
While the crowds I'd seen in mainland Egypt seemed to be an encouraging sign that tourism is returning to a slowly stabilizing Egypt, Sinai tourism has suffered greatly, particularly after the plane bombing in 2015 prompted many airlines to cancel all routes there entirely.
Sahaba Mosque Sharm el Sheikh
For those who are willing to venture back to Sinai, incredible riches await. Empty beaches and dive sites, rock-bottom prices, and the most incredible hospitality I've ever received - the Bedouins are renown for it - are abound.
Plus, these incredible tablecloth fashions, brought to you by your local mosque tour.
I admit, the Sahaba Mosque didn't blow me away. The exterior had a strange sheen of tackiness,like it was built more for tourists than for worship, and the "tour" consisted of a lovely attendant offering to take our pictures for tips. But Kat had never seen a mosque before and so she enjoyed it, and I had fun sharing with her what I'd learned from more comprehensive and authentic mosque tours I've taken in places like Bahrain and Kuwait. And let's face it - we got our money's worth in laughs from those clashing abaya prints alone.
Naama Center Old Market was similarly underwhelming. It was sadly deserted and mostly full of tourist trinkets, unlike the incredible and authentic market I'd visited in Islamic Cairo. That said, there were some highlights - I bought some beautiful and unique art from Cose Belle Bazar, which is at stall 76 if you feel like tracking it down. The proprietor was lovely and patiently explained what every Egyptian word on the pieces I was buying said so I could write it down and take notes.
Though lunch at Sinai Old Spices was so good we'd considered having dinner there too, we simply couldn't miss Farsha Cafe, the one must-do that had stood out from my research on where to eat and drink in Sharm.
Just look at this place! We stopped more or less every step down from the cliffside, marveling at each pause that this was the perfect view.
It's more of a bar and shisha lounge than a restaurant, as the menu is limited more or less to pizza. But every drink we ordered came with an unsolicited parade of beautiful snacks, from fresh fruits to nuts to tasty chips. This, we'd come to learn, was the Bedouin way - order one small thing, brace yourself for a seven course meal served with an enthusiastic smile.
And in this case, quite the view.
Farsha bustled with tourists from all corners. The photo below is one of my favorites from the trip - what an incredible, diverse world we live in.
Farsha Cafe, Sharm El Sheikh
We lingered long enough in our sea-front perch to watch the sun set and the lights of the town twinkle on. Sharm El Sheikh might not have been our dream town, but so far we'd sure found some magical corners of it.
The next day, we packed up for our liveaboard we'd be checking into that evening, and set off for a day of absolute indulgent bliss. We'd thrown around so many adventurous options for this day but we both finally confessed we just really needed to recharge - and so we headed to the Chavana Spa, home to a beautiful hamam, massage rooms overlooking the ocean, and a well-priced scrub, rub, and steam spa package for the day.
Wherever I travel I love to look for local and unique spa treatments, and while Egypt didn't really have any signature spa specials that I could find, I figured a Turkish hamam was at least fairly regional, no? While we weren't allowed to use the pools or the beach since Chavana is inside an all-inclusive resort, for $54USD for the whole shebang including tax and tip, we really couldn't complain.
And then we were off to sea! So, our time in Sharm was very brief. While I had a blast with Kat and loved our carefully chosen meals, activities, and accommodation, overall I wasn't charmed, and there was little else that grabbed our attention and begged us to return.
That said, I fell head over heels in love with Sinai on the whole, and with Sharm being the main access point to the region, I have no doubt I'll be back here. When I do, you know where you can find me - poolside at Sinai Old Spices and smoking shisha at Farsha Cafe, of course. Both were a reminder that even in the brashest boldest beach towns, you can still find a way to do things your way.
Last month I spent a few days in Armenia, a country that's been on my bucket list for a while. As I have many Armenian friends, know people who either have lived there, and my family also has some Armenian roots. While Armenia is becoming more popular day by day, the country is still unspoiled by the crowds of mass tourism and it's surely affordable.
As one of the earliest Christian civilizations, Armenia holds a lot of history and combined with its natural beauty makes the place very interesting to visit. Did you know that the oldest winery in the world that's almost 6000 years old is in the caves of Areni in Armenia?
While it's impossible to talk about a country as a whole after just a few days, here's what I saw, ate and did, so you can get a glimpse of why you should travel to Armenia.
Why Travel to Armenia?
Armenian locals were welcoming and friendly, sharing fresh and healthy food with me. Although I do understand some Russian, the language barrier shouldn't be a problem in Armenia, as everyone was always eager to help.
People are proud of their heritage and their country, even if parts of its history is quite dark.
The Armenian civilization used to span all the way from Persia to Europe. Armenia was the first country to make wine, and the first country to adopt Christianity.
This small land-locked country bordering with Iran, Turkey, Azerbaijan and Georgia, has been involuntarily involved with many wars between those countries. The Armenian genocide, also known as the Armenian Holocaust but still not recognized by all countries, was the Ottoman government's systematic extermination of 1.5 million Armenians, mostly citizens within the Ottoman Empire.
Language
Outside of the capital, you can easily assume that nobody speaks even a bit of English. The language that is spoken is Armenian also has its own alphabet, but road signs will also be in English. You can get by with basic Russian, but assume that it's not always going to be the case.
Try to learn at least thank you (mersi), as it will be appreciated by the locals. But don't worry, sign language will work just fine in the worst case. You might even get a hug here or there - that's how friendly Armenians are.
Places to See in Armenia
Yerevan
I started my trip in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia and the largest city in the country. Marked by Soviet architecture these days, Yerevan is one of the world's oldest inhabited cities, constructed 29 years before Rome. That said, as you can imagine, there are plenty of museums with some of the oldest relics in the world.
My first stop in the city was the cascade, a giant white staircase that hides a cultural center under it and many sculptures by Botero on top of it. If you're lucky, you can see Mount Ararart from the cascade. Yes, it's the peak described in the Bible where Noah landed his Ark. Although it's not technically in Armenia, but in Turkey, it used to be Armenian and people get nostalgic about it.
Before traveling to Armenia I read some articles that advised travelers to dress conservatively. I cannot disagree more with this statement after my trip. In Yerevan, Armenians dress just like any other Europeans, so there's no need to extensively cover yourself.
One thing I didn't expect to find in Yerevan was water fountains. No one in the city or at major landmarks outside the city ever carried a bottle of water, despite it being 40 C degrees outside. This is because there are free water fountains at every corner and everyone uses them. I wish more cities installed them!
What to See in Armenia?
Most tourists head to two of the most popular locations at 1,500 meters up in the foothills of the Geghama Range: temple of Garni and the monastery at Geghard. My schedule allowed me to only visit a few spots in Armenia, but I made the most of it spending much of my time in Armenian countryside.
Armenian countryside is a perfect spot for both cultural tourism lovers and nature fanatics. The country is like an open-air museum with its 4000-year-old history. There are so many unique historical and cultural attractions, like architectural masterpieces, churches, and nature. Rolling hills and mountains of Armenia are also very favorable for different extreme sports. Conditions are great for paragliding, mountaineering, ski sports, snowboarding, rock climbing, trekking and more.
We crossed a high mountain pass and entered a hidden green valley surrounded by snowy peaks. While it was too early for all flowers to be blooming, I could only imagine how beautiful it would look like at the end of the summer. We stopped by a small village to see traditional Armenian life. While it was obviously catered to tourists it was great to see the folkloric dances, or traditional ways or making bread and butter.
From there we continued the journey to Amberd Fort located at height 2300 meters above sea level. According to historical sources, the Kamsarakan princes initiated the construction of the fortress in the 7th century, but the full thing wasn't finished until the 11th century. It was conquered and lost multiple times, and finally ruined in the 14th century. The complex also has a church that's one of the first cruciform type churches with dour two-story chambers and an umbrella dome above.
The next day we started the day with a visit to Haghartsin Monastery, one of the UNESCO Heritage sites, in the woodland of Tavoush region. The monastery, like other Armenian's holy places, is very simple from the inside, no decorations or drawings, yet has a very interesting history.
The monastery complex has been restored and in the refectory, there is an exhibition of black and white photos of Haghartsin in a ruined state and in color photos after the restoration. As a board informs visitors, the restoration has been financed with the support of the Muslim ruler of the Emirate of Sharjah. Apparently, when he and his European wife came to visit Armenia they were told that many churches in Armenia were destroyed by Arab Wars and to make his wife happy he decided to restore one of the places that was previously destroyed.
My final stop in Armenia was Lake Sevan. Locals often go there to do some watersports, hang out with their family and enjoy some beach time. There's a very iconic church overlooking Lake Sevan as well.
What to Eat in Armenia?
A trip to Armenia wouldn't be completed without a touch of Armenian food. Enriched with more than two thousand years of history, Armenian cuisine has a lot to offer.
Common ingredients in Armenian dishes are lamb, eggplant, goat or sheep yogurt, cottage cheese, grape leaves and many spices. While it's impossible to talk about every single dish after just a few days in Armenia, a few things definitely caught my taste buds.
Lavash
Lavash, a common type of bread that old cooking tradition has been passed on from generation to generation. It's a soft and thin flatbread made in a tandoor. It comes as no surprise that lavash made it to UNESCO's List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity as an expression of culture in Armenia.
Dolma
Pronounced as "Tolma" in Armenian, it's basically meat, rice, and onion rolled up in fresh young grape leaves and cooked. It's often eaten as a starter, together with a thick yogurt.
This is an ideal vegan recipe to cherish, especially during Lent festival. For a non-vegan dolma recipe, check on the Udoli dolma made of lamb meat wrapped in cabbage leaves.
Everything stuffed
Armenians love to stuff things. Everywhere I went, on top of traditional meat barbeques, I found stuffed veggies on the menu. I usually opted for stuffed peppers or cabbage rolls. The hearty meal is a winner in every aspect as it's not only tasty, but also colorful.
Convinced to go Armenia? Contact Armenia Travel to ask for a tailor-made itinerary!
Best Things to Do in Tokyo for First Timers
1. Visit Senso-ji
Founded in 645 AD, Senso-ji colorful temple in Asakusa is Tokyo's oldest Buddhist temple. It's also one of, if not, the most visited spiritual locations in the world with over 30 million visitors a year. Visit the temple and wander the surrounding historical area to get a better feel for why this ancient temple symbolizes rebirth and peace.
The temple grounds are always open, but the temple itself it's open 6:00 to 17:00 (from 6:30 from October to March).
Senso-ji Temple is a place full of Omikuji: the fortune telling paper strips. You can find your fortune strip there for a small donation. Pick up the wooden box provided and shake it until a bamboo stick falls out of it. Japanese characters will be engraved on your stick and you'll have to find the matching characters on the wooden drawers next to you. If you get a good fortune, you can keep the paper. If you get a bad fortunate leave it behind at the temple grounds so the Gods can take care of it for you. I only got a bad omikuji.
While you're there, grab a mochi from some of the neighboring stalls. It's also a good place to buy some Japanese souvenirs.
2. Stroll Around Harajku
From goths in black to colorful kawaii (culture of "cuteness" and vulnerability in Japan) fashion, the quirky Harajuku neighborhood in Shibuya pulses with the life of Tokyo's youth. Small boutique and vintage shops share streets with high-end luxury brands, making this lively neighborhood a popular destination for both domestic and international tourists.
Takeshita Street is a very busy pedestrian shopping street, full of colorful cotton candy, adorable stores, and crepes. Harajuku is known for crepes.
If you have small feet, you will be tempted the get some pairs of shoes. They're absolutely adorable and cost about $10-15, and even though I'm not a big shopper I grabbed three pairs.
Don't miss a store called Kiddy Land. If you're a fan of any Japanese character, chances are you can find it there. If you aren't, still pop in and see some cute and other weird items.
If you have time pop into Tokyu Plaza - a shopping complex at the intersection of Omotesando and Harajuku. The entrance is beautifully architected with mirror covered escalator and there is a rooftop terrace on the 6th floor offering a great view of the surrounding area.
3. Cross Shibuya Crossing
Shibuya Crossing, the busiest street crossing in Japan (and likely the world). The intersection connects a district with two of the busiest railway stations in the world. When all four lights turn red at once, dive into the chaos. If you want to see it all from above, pop into Starbucks on the 1st floor - it has the best view!
4. Sleep in a Capsule Hotel
Maybe you're looking for an inexpensive place to crash for the night. Or maybe you want to experience what it's like to wake up in a CAT Scan machine. Either way, capsule or 'pod' hotels have you covered. They're scattered throughout Tokyo and offer the bare necessities when it comes to accommodation.
Most have a common room, shared bathrooms, and 'pod' bedrooms stacked two-high with ladder access. Some pods are only as big as a single bed but provide outlets, wifi, and a locker to store your personal items.
A 'room' runs about $30-50 USD/night on average, and you'll find everyone from backpackers to businessmen booking these little guys. Avoid these if you're claustrophobic. If you're not sure, booking a capsule is a great way to find out and a must-do in Japan.
My personal recommendations for capsule hotels would be Book and Bed (sleep among books), and The Millennials (very modern spot with co-working space and adjustable beds).
5. Visit Akihabara Electric Town
If Times Square and Best Buy had a baby who loved anime, that baby would be Akihabara Electric Town. Bright and colorful neon signs mark the entrances to countless electronic and gadget shops where you can pick up everything from a single fuse to a brand new camera. Yodobashi Camera takes up a large chunk of real estate here and boasts 9 (9!) floors of technological goodies.
Visit Akihabara Electric Town and embrace your inner otaku: "A young person who is obsessed with computers or particular aspects of popular culture to the detriment of their social skills".
6. Get Amazed by Japanese Toilets
Western countries are light years behind the Japanese in the toilet game. All the buttons features for your butt can overwhelm you at first. Plus, different models mean different ways to flush-a pretty important step in the process.
We'll let you mess around with them when you get there. After spraying water a time or two, you'll start to recognize which buttons perform which functions. You'll wonder how you're going to survive without them when you get home.
7. Buy Something From A Vending Machine
Japan also comes out on top when it comes to vending machines. Both in sheer quantity (there are more vending machines per capita in Japan than anywhere else in the world) and variety of goods sold. You can get collectible items, useless gimmicks, food, or anything you want from them.
As a traveler, this is especially exciting and useful. You can experience the novelty of buying canned bread or fishing bait instead of a Coke, and you can buy new underwear.
8. Relax at an Onsen
Unlike past generations, you no longer have to journey far from the city to rest and relax at one of Japan's onsen, or natural hot springs. Drilling into Tokyo's volcanic crust provided Tokyoites with their own access to the springs. Inns and spas sprang up around some of them, while city officials left others left as simple public baths. There are options for all budgets located throughout and around the city.
Tip for tattooed travelers: There's a slim chance you're a mobster. But onsen managers may ask you to cover your tattoos or even deny access due to past problems with the yakuza.
9. Shop for Cute & Weird Things
Whatever you're looking to buy, Japan has it. I mean anything. Shop for stuffed kawaii or cat cartoons on one block and weird Kit Kat flavors on another.
Japan doesn't always separate the kawaii from the quirky. Buy realistic cat nose brooches or soft pillows that look like actual fish.
You can even get a 'secret anime tie'-business in the front, entertainment in the back. Make a game of it and see who can buy the weirdest souvenir.
10. Eat at Themed Cafes
Tokyo cafes cater to fans of all kinds. Stop for a spot of tea with Alice in Wonderland, immerse yourself in cuteness at a Kawaii Monster Cafe, or indulge your hedgehog fetish. It depends on what you're into. But whichever world you stumble upon, you'll find the experience.
The strangest dining spot, in my opinion, would be Vampire Cafe. Japan's corrupt-mental-institution themed restaurant offers diners a chance to eat inside of filthy coffins and cocktails made of fake blood.
Ever wanted to feel like royalty? The kind that gets spoon-fed and massaged in a totally platonic way by their maid?
Stop in at one of these cosplay Maid Cafes where workers dress as maids and wait on you hand and foot. Some maid cafes even offer games and activities at an additional cost.
You always need to pre-book your table a few days in advance, as all those places get full. If you purchase your tickets online you can visit two cafes in one afternoon.
Robot Restaurant Show & Kawaii Monster Cafe Dinner
Robot Restaurant Show & Alice in Wonderland Dinner
Robot Restaurant Only Ticket
Maid Cafe Experience
11. Attend a Tea Ceremony
One does not simply "make" tea in Japan. You use matcha. You take your time. And you distinguish yourself from members of other tea schools by the way you stir and serve and the color kimono you wear. Enjoy this cultural experience yourself. And yes, you get to wear a kimono, and even meet a geisha if you like.
Tip: if you're heading to Tokyo or Kyoto during cherry blossom season, you might want to pre-book your tea ceremony experience, as both places are full of tourists.
12. Take a Day Trip to Hakone - Mount Fuji
You've seen it immortalized in the famous woodblock The Great Wave off Kanagawa. In Fuji-Hakone-Izu National park about 2.5 hours by bus from Tokyo stands Mt. Fuji. The majestic landform represents good luck and fortune and is a symbol of the nation itself.
It's the highest mountain and the most climbed in Japan with summit climbs open from July until September. You can also hike at lower levels during springtime to see the cherry blossoms bloom.
Take Shinjuku Expressway Bus Terminal to the Fuji Subaru Line 5th station and start your 6-hour trek to the summit. If you prefer a more organized experience you can get a tour that lets you see multiple places in one day.
13. Take a Sushi Making Class
We take sushi for granted. It's delicious, it's healthy, it's convenient. But it's not as easy to make as you might think. Try your hand at rolling up some sushi with experts in the nation where the dish originated. Check out #20 for one of the best spots in Tokyo to learn how.
14. Spot a Godzilla in Shinjuku
Oh no, there goes Tokyo... Come on, you know you want to sing it with me.
In the heart of downtown Tokyo not far from the park mentioned above you'll find shops, bars, and restaurants-normal Japanese city locales. But stand beneath Toho Cinemas and look up to see the mean mug of none other than Godzilla herself (an original version, not the newer, neckless behemoth that looks like he ate one too many subway cars). The only move is to run for your life and pray for the city's salvation in one of Tokyo's historic temples.
* See Cherry Blossoms (seasonal)
Japanese people are crazy about sakura - cherry blossoms. Every year, food and drinks become sakura flavored, merchandise turns into sakura-themed, and thousands of people storm the best spots to see it.
Japan boasts a world-famous display of cherry blossoms, a flower that has symbolized both the beauty and fleeting nature of life for centuries. The full blooming period only lasts for about a week in late March and early April before the blossoms begin to fall.
Every year the national tourism board releases a bloom calendar with dates for different cities. They're usually not wrong. Go right before the full bloom to avoid paying 3x the price for accommodation and to see it all slightly less crowded.
My favorite spot for viewing sakura in Tokyo isn't Ueno Park, but Chidorigafuchi Park. It's home to 170 different types of cherry blossoms with different blooming periods, so the spectacle occurs over time. During the annual cherry blossom festival, the paths of Chidorigafuchi are lit up in a wondrous display and boats are also available for pleasure cruising.
Another quiet spot for viewing cherry blossoms and getting a cultural experience is a visit to the Yanaka Cemetery. I stumbled upon this place by accident. It's located next to Yanaka Ginza and Nippori Station.
Tokyo Temples to Visit
15. Kan'ei-ji Temple
History buffs will love this temple in Ueno park. Built in 1625, this Tendai Buddhist temple maintained support through the years from the last feudal Japanese military government-the Tokugawa shogunate.
In fact, 6 of 14 Tokugawa shoguns lie buried here, and it was the site of the last stand of the final shogun against the revolutionary army loyal to the emperor.
Walk through the park to see a nearby 5 story pagoda and a statue of Saigo Takamori who stormed the main gate of the temple with his Imperial forces in the final battle. To skip the longer stroll, get off at nearby Uguisudani Station and walk 9 minutes to the temple.
16. Sougenji Kappa-Dera Temple
The area of Kappabashi became infested long ago with kappa-an amphibious, turtle-like demon creature hell-bent on obtaining the magical spheres found in our butts. To make them go away, locals constructed this Buddhist temple to appease them. It's even rumored to host one of the creature's mummified hands.
Do your part to keep them happy when you visit and bring offerings of cucumbers to place near the many kappa statues on the grounds. Don't agree to wrestle if you see one - they're accomplished grapplers.
17. Gotokuji Temple
When a cat waves you down, it's best to see what it wants. Rumor has it this temple in the Setagaya district is the birthplace of the maneki-neko (beckoning cat).
It's said during the Edo period a cat led a feudal lord to safety during a storm. To commemorate the event, locals began carving statues of cats with one paw raised. If you're afraid of a kappa encounter, these cats are a safer bet.
Get off Gotokuji station and walk 5 minutes to see hundreds of these friendly felines. There are pretty much no tourists around, just locals, so it's a refreshing experience.
18. Yasukuni Shrine
In the Chiyoda district, you'll find one of the most controversial historical landmarks in Tokyo. Large gate curtains emblazoned with the Japanese Imperial Chrysanthemum mark the entrance to the Shinto shrine built in 1869 to commemorate those who died in service of Japan.
But the controversy stems from the fourteen WWII 'Class A' war criminals enshrined here. If you'd prefer to visit the temple but avoid the debate, experience the Shinto festivals honoring the ancestral gods of Japan in Spring and Autumn.
Places to Eat in Tokyo
19. Eat Sushi & Watch Tuna Auction at Tsukiji Fish Market
'Wicked tuna' takes on a whole new meaning at Tsukiji Fish market, the largest fish and seafood market in the world. Products arrive from all over the world for early-morning auctions at the inner wholesale market. Tsukiji officials limit auction entrance to 120 visitors, so expect to wait in line around 4 am or earlier for a chance to watch.
If you don't make it into the auction, don't worry. Wander through the shops and restaurants of the outer market and grab some fresh sushi at Sushi Dai or one of the many spots nearby. As weird as it might seem to have sushi at 7 am for breakfast, that's what locals do. You can even make your sushi there.
20. Stuff Your Face with Ramen at the Ramen Museum
Ah, the good ol' college days. Ramen will always have a place in our hearts as the quick, cheap, and salty noodle that fueled our late-night study sessions.
But to truly appreciate this food, you've got to go back to 1950's Tokyo at the Ramen Museum in Yokohama. It's designed to look like the period when ramen mania struck Japan's capital, complete with mini-stores serving different flavors of the famous dish.
The place reminded me of Ramen-themed Las Vegas, with fake cloudy ceiling and performances. Entry is about $2.80 USD + your bowl of ramen inside (about $5-9 for a giant bowl). Vending machines sell tickets for the individual bowls outside of the shops. Prepare yourself for long lines, but trust me - it's worth the wait. Unless you're a big guy get half portion, as even very hungry visitors struggled to finish.
21. Yokohama Cup Noodles Museum
If you didn't get your noodle-fix at the Ramen Museum, head over to the nearby Yokohama Cup Noodles Museum. Here you can design your own cup noodles and make your own noodles from scratch to take home. You'll learn about cup noodles for astronauts and try samples in their indoor "night market".
Entry is about $4.50USD. Workshops and cup noodles cost extra. If you want to make your own noodles, you should also sign up for soba noodles making class.
22. Have Lunch with a Moomin
Japanese culture is nothing if not sympathetic (check out #31 for a crazy example). The 'anti-loneliness' Moomin Cafe in central Tokyo seats guests with a stuffed hippo-like character to keep you company while you dine on Finnish bread and sip your coffee.
The cute, white hippos are the creation of writer/illustrator Tove Jansson, a Helsinki native. They'll sit at your table to help you avoid the awkwardness of eating alone, or simply accompany your entire family.
Lines run out the door as they don't take up reservations. Try a weekday trip for less wait time, but still expect to wait about an hour.
23. Eat a White Japanese Strawberry
If Fallout had mutated strawberries growing around the wasteland, they'd look like this. Yasuhito Teshima claims to have created the original version of these giant white strawberries after years of crossbreeding at his farm in Saga Prefecture.
These rare 'white jewels' grow much larger and taste sweeter than regular strawberries. It'll set you back about $10 to get your hands on ONE of these beauties, but when in Japan...
24. Eat Dinner of Your Nightmares at Alcatraz ER or LockUp
Tokyo is home to many themed eateries in the nation's capital catering to all interests and subcultures. Share meals with samurai, gobble with ghosts, feast while fishing. You can even "visit" Kyoto.
Steel your nerves for a morbid meal in one of Shibuya's creepy prison and prison hospital themed izakayas. Staff will "lock you up" to start your night of incarceration. Try banging your tray on the bars to get some service.
These venues aren't known for their food, and the main dishes are often overpriced. However, the experience of getting drinks mixed by dildo-wielding waitresses in nurse outfits, taking your trail mix "pills" as a patient, and eating what looks like human brains is worth it. Both locations are fun for groups. Leave the kids at home, though.
Things to Do in Tokyo at Night
25. See the Skyline from Tokyo Tower or Tokyo Skytree
After spending the day roaming Tokyo's streets, head to Tokyo Tower or Tokyo Skytree to take in the chaos of this sprawling city from above. Tokyo Tower stands in the Minato business district. It's hard to miss, as it looks like the Eiffel Tower. This gives a closer, more intimate look at the people walking the streets below.
On the other hand, the Skytree in Sumida Ward watches over the capital at almost twice the height of the Tower. It's the second-tallest self-supporting structure in the world and the tallest tower in Tokyo. You can even see the Tokyo Tower and Mt. Fuji from the top on a clear day.
Both towers are beautifully lit at night, as is the city stretching out below.
26. Sleep in a Hello Kitty Hotel
If you didn't know, Hello Kitty is kind of a big deal in Japan. It's impossible to escape pink at Keio Plaza Hotel's Hello Kitty rooms in Shinjuku Ward. You get Hello Kitty room service with Hello Kitty-shaped sandwiches, omelets, and latte art. Plus, you can take home a Hello Kitty writing kit, doll, and moisturizers to remember the famous feline.
27. Visit Disneyland for a Lower Price
Meet Mickey and company in Tokyo with cheaper tickets and a more straightforward usage structure than the US Disney parks.
Here's how it works:
1-2 day passes=no park hopping. 3-4 day passes allow park hopping on days 3-4. Ignore the other options if you're just there for a normal week vacation. Note that Disneyland and DisneySea are not close by like in Anaheim, so it takes time to hop between parks. Pre-book your tickets here.
You can easily spend two days at each. If you're worried they won't live up to their US "counterparks", both Tokyo Disney parks have won industry awards since opening.
28. Admire Light Shows at Gardens
Once popular only in winter, these beautiful light installations now run in summer, too. In summer months, check out the Tokyo Tower Milky Way show or the Tokyo Midtown, which features "fireworks" shown on a light board from the three major fireworks shows in Japan.
Midtown also lights up for winter with the Midtown Christmas illumination and 'Starlight Garden'. A stunning winter wonderland lights up the Caretta Shiodome a short metro ride away.
The best part is they're free to visit. Enjoy the show, and good luck getting Kanye out of your head.
Unusual & Weird Attractions in Tokyo
29. Meguro Parasitological Museum
Come face-to-face with the world's longest tapeworm in this strange Meguro-based museum devoted to parasites. With over 45,000 specimens in its collection, you're sure to find something that disgusts you. Plus, you'll learn about all the ways animals can transfer parasites to you throughout your life. Hurray!
An unlucky soul got the record-breaking 29-ft tapeworm after eating sushi, so you might want to hold off on eating before entering. Luckily, entry is free.
30. Ghibli Museum
Whether you've only heard of My Neighbor Totoro or you start drunken debates with randoms about which Miyazaki film is the best, the Ghibli Museum in Mitaka is worth a visit. It's designed in the style of the films Miyazaki helped create, complete with many of his famous characters.
Watch short films exclusive to the museum, learn about the history of the studio and animation, and pay homage to this creative animator/director/all-around Manga god.
Tickets are not sold at the museum, and purchasing them can be confusing. Get them online at local JTB offices 3 months in advance, or in Japan at Lawson convenience stores starting the 10th of the previous month. Try for weekdays as weekends and holidays sell out. Otherwise, book with Viator.
31. Rent a Friend
No, not that kind of "friend".
There's nothing sexual about this strange service used to help people cope with loneliness, fake engagements, or talk about their day. As a tourist, it can help you feel more at ease in a city known for overwhelming visitors and locals alike. You'll never walk alone in Japan.
Expect to pay at least $115 for two hours.
32. Step Into a Different World at Anata No Warehouse
If you're looking to play video games and feel like you're in one at the same time, check out Anata no Warehouse in Kawasaki.
Designed as a cyberpunk dystopian version of Hong Kong's walled Kowloon city, this giant building offers floors of arcade-style, casino, and barroom gaming. From the grimy walls to the old ads and signs, the arcade's designers took painstaking measures to recreate the city. They even shipped in trash from Hong Kong that's dedication to your craft.
You can still walk through for free if you're not much of a gamer. Otherwise, prices vary for individual games, but you might want to try some as they're pretty strange.
33. Visit Sanrio Puroland
Disney has their classic It's a Small World ride. The indoor theme park opened by the kawaii-focused Sanrio Company in Tama New Town might've outdone them. Where else can you take a boat ride led by the cuddly Cinnamoroll to a party hosted by the Hello Kitty herself?
Tickets start at $22USD for kids and $30USD for adults for weekday passes, which are cheaper than weekends. Your best bet would be booking with Viator, as it's actually cheaper that way.
34. Pet some Furry Friends at a Cat Cafe
These are popping up all over the world, but you'll find the cat cafes scattered throughout Tokyo. If you've never heard of them, it's exactly what it sounds like. Pay a time-based cover charge, drink beverages, and pet cats. Lots of them.
Cat Cafe Calico is popular in Shinjuku, while Neko JaLaLa in Akihabara boasts more exotic breeds. Entry runs ~$9/hr on weekdays and more on weekends.
35. Visit the Cat Street
There are actually two Cat Streets in Tokyo. Shibuya Cat Street near Shibuya Crossing fits right in with the nearby Harajuku scene. Teens and hipsters sporting funky colored outfits, frills, and kawaii fashion.
But over in Yanaka, Yanaka Ginza is like Main Street in Cat Town. Cat figures, cat faces, cat jewelry. Real cats, fake cats, cat waffles, cat beer. Cat waffles with cat beer. Grab some cheap street food and take in Cat Town in all its furry glory. There are barely any tourists around.
36. Go to an Owl Cafe
For about $13USD/hour at Fukuro No Mise Owl Cafe in Akihabara you get owl play time and a  soft drink. Hold them on your arm, kept close by a small string around your finger. Watch them sleep or attempt to eat one another. Relax in the calm lighting of this tranquil cafe.
Warning: I visited this cafe a few years ago and I can vouch for them. The place is only open in the afternoon/evening so owl can get some daytime sleep, and most owls don't live there full-time. This year, I was distressed to see that many new owl cafes popped up and not only they're open all day, but also use the owls to promote the establishments on the street, without any water or shelter. Please, if you see an owl being mistreated, don't support this establishment.
37. Drive Mario Karts
Put on your favorite Mario Kart character costume and race through the streets of Tokyo with other drivers at speeds up to 60 km (37 mph) with MariCar Akihabara. With multiple tracks to choose from (sorry, no Rainbow Road), MariCar says,'Once is never enough!' The only things missing are the shells and banana peels.
You'll need an International Driving Permit, or a SOFA License for US Forces to use the karts.
Prices are $81 and up depending on course length, and you can work out a discount if you write up a thorough review on your blog or social media profile.
38. Feast like an apocalypse king at Mr Kanso
It's the end of the world. Imagine yourself in your own wasteland bunker as you get drunk and gorge yourself on over 350 delicious canned foods from around the globe. You can find Mr. Kanso in Shinjuku. Cans range from around $1.80 to as much as $18 USD, and they even do pairings. Walrus curry and Jack, anyone?
39. Strike a pose at Purikura no Mecca
For diehard fans of the selfy, Purikura no Mecca in Shibuya offers you the chance to take as many as you want. Hell, why use only one camera?
Bounce from photobooth to photobooth armed with an endless array of editing tools to indulge your vanity. Long lashes and doe eyes for ultimate kawaii? Yep. Anime edit to make you look like a character straight from your favorite comic series? You know it.
This isn't just for women and children. But apparently the manga girls were too much for some male guests, so men-only groups or guys looking for a solo-shoot are not allowed. Prices start at around $3.50.
40. Visit Aokigahara Forest
Aokigahara, also known as the Sea of Trees, is a forest on the northwestern flank of Japan's Mount Fuji thriving on 30 square kilometers of hardened lava laid down by the last major eruption of Mount Fuji. The forest offers gorgeous views of Mount Fuji, distinctive lava plateau, 300-year-old trees, and the enchanting Narusawa Ice Cave.
While the forest is a beautiful place to visit, but it's also a spooky place, as it's world's second most popular place to take one's life (after Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco). Some believe the ghosts - yurei, of those abandoned and the mournful spirits of the suicidal linger in the woods. Compasses, cellphones, GPS systems also don't work in the forest due to the magnetic iron, so stay on the path when you visit.
A trip to Tokyo is an assault on the senses. From temples steeped in ancient history to technological advancements and absurdities, Japan's capital pulses and thrives like a neon-lit neural network. Whether you're visiting to educate or entertain yourself, Tokyo makes sure you leave having done both.
Any questions about Tokyo? Ask me below!