The Death Of The Middle Class And The Rise of The Nomadic Entrepreneur
I recently tweeted a thought that has been marinating inside my head for quite some time. As you can see, it's an idea that received wide support, with plenty of tweets and favorites, especially by some heavy hitters who understand how the game is really played.
In the future, you'll either be a wage slave or a location independent nomad enjoying dollar arbitrage; the middle class will be dismantled.
— James Maverick (@MavTraveler) April 2, 2016
Over 100 hours years ago, an economist predicted that the capital-owned class will be eventually overthrown by the rebellious proletariat (the working class). His name was Karl Marx and, in his pamphlet, The Communist Manifesto, he preached the wonders of a new socio-economic political system called Communism.
These days, Karl Marx's theories are mostly ridiculed because his predictions didn't come true. The working class didn't rebel against the capitalists. While Communism became the economic system of a few countries, it eventually collapsed, leaving capitalism as the only system that efficiently organizes labor and capital.
Nevertheless, Karl Marx was right in his other famous work: Capital. In it, he explained how the capitalist classes exploit the labor-providing class for its own gain.
His main argument was in something called "surplus value," where a capitalist derives value from workers in excess of what he pays him. For example, if you're making $50/hour working at your soulless and lifeless 9-5 job, the value your boss derives from your work is typically more than $50/hour—often many times that amount. This "surplus value" goes into his pocket without any compensation to you. If you want to understand how the middle class is being exploited, you don't need to look much further than this.
The mystery of the middle class
In describing how labor is exploited, I mentioned a term that most of you probably glossed over without thinking twice: middle class. It's an innocent term that gets thrown around a lot. Politicians love using it when campaigning for an important post such as the Senate or the Presidency. They love it because it carries lots of political capital; mention those two words and you've immediately got the attention of the sizable chunk of your electorate.
Here lies the paradox. While this term is of immense value to politicians and other public figures, that's not the case when it comes to someone who has no aspirations of manipulating large crowds for their own Machiavellian gain—someone like you and me. That means there's the formal definition of a middle class that's taught to the masses and the real definition that few actually know.
The formal, economic definition of the middle class: a group of people who're not poor and not rich. It's someone who's making a decent salary, usually at a comfortable 9-5 job with generous benefits.
At least that's the economic definition, the one touted by politicians and the one you study in your high school textbook.
But real life, as I'm sure you've suspected if you've been reading this blog long enough, works quite differently. And, I'm here to tell you but you've been deeply mislead: this "middle class" is actually something else entirely.
Do you know what "middle class" really means? I bet that nobody told you that the middle class doesn't really exist. It's a house of mirrors, a mirage, a smokescreen.
Imagine for a moment that a population is divided into three groups: those who don't work, those who work for someone else, and those who work for themselves. Out of the three groups of people, the middle class would be the second example (it's in the middle of the other classes).
Unlike the other two classes, the middle class is the only class that's voluntarily trading their only precious asset—time—for money, aka pieces of paper that are devaluing at a constant rate due to inflation.
It's a class consisting of lost and confused people who do pointless and useless things like obtaining bullshit "liberal arts" degrees because they have no idea what skills are actually in demand. So, they listened to their trusty high school guidance counselor (who's paid by the state to tell you complete bullshit) who was nice enough to tell them that they're going to "change the world" while forking over $20,000+ of tuition each year. It's a class that thinks it'll "change the world" while slaving away nights and weekend at some "startup" whose main business model is quick delivery of organic food to small chihuahuas.
Not only is the middle class lost and confused, it's more than happy to work hard and subsidize others who don't work nearly as much. It's one of the most ingenious schemes in the world. One way this is accomplished is via taxes. The tax code contains all kinds loopholes that greatly benefit those who're earning lots of money at the expense of those who don't earn as much (those who make little or no money are subsidized by the government).
Not too long ago, I read an article that talked about how Warren Buffet's secretary actually paid more taxes than the famous billionaire himself. He was taxed less because most of his earnings were on capital instead of as a result of his labor.
Another ingenious method of robbing the middle class is via a scheme better known by its common marketing name: "the financial crisis." For one reason or another, these "financial crises" seem to occur like clockwork every ten years or so. Coincidence? During the last big 2008 financial crisis, people had their savings completely obliterated (my own 401k retirement account and other investment accounts were contracted by half, and I lost a substantial amount of money).
Since you're incentivized by everyone—your employer, your "financial advisor" and the IRS—to contribute to an IRA or 401k fund, the middle class usually has a sizable funds there. Thus, it becomes a good target to raze via  orchestrated "financial crises" just like the big one in 2008.
The middle class is stuck between a rock and a hard place. Always has been. Always will be. It's the consumer guinea pigs for products and services that are produced by others. It's a class that's constantly being scammed and gamed in all kinds of ways.
While Karl Marx was a brilliant economist, his mistake was giving this class too much credit. After all, the middle class is very lazy. Extremely lazy. He expected them to actually stop watching their 500 channels and get out of their comfortable couches in their cookie cutter suburbia homes and actually revolt against the oligarchs (yes, even in America, there are oligarchs like George Soros) that control their lives. How crazy is that?
They didn't revolt because they couldn't be bothered. As long as they have their "chic" downtown studio and their 500 TV channels all financed by cheap and unsustainable credit (i.e., finance slavery) to buy a house or some car to impress some girl (if it's a girl to buy her Louis Vuitton bag), they're perfectly comfortable.
How to pillage the middle class and get away with murder
Many say that middle class began to decline after Ronald Reagan took office. At that time America was suffering from hyperinflation (a strange phenomenon where prices rise but without the corresponding rise in productivity). In order to battle this problem, the head of the Federal Reserve Bank (the quasi public/private monopoly that controls American currency) heavily raised interest rates that it charges to banks when it makes loans.
The result was that money became scarce, which lead to a contraction of the economy and eventual depression. Since the cost of money went up, this greatly benefited those who had capital and money to lend at the expense of those who didn't (yup, middle class got duped again).
But there's a another risk—a much graver one—to the middle class that has been evolving for the past several decades: globalization. Globalization presents an interesting problem for governments. For a government to survive, it must find ways to make revenue. Since a government doesn't actually sell any products or services, it derives revenue via two ways: taxing the population or borrowing from creditors.
In an increasingly borderless world, it's getting harder for governments to tax its citizens. In most countries a citizen is not a taxable resident if he spends less than 180 days in the country (America is the only country in the world that taxes its citizens regardless where they actually live in the world; I'm sure that more countries will shortly be following suit). As a result, governments will begin to run higher budget deficits by spending more than they take in.
Guess who'll be used to make up for the shortfall? Those who're the easiest to tax: the immobile middle class who doesn't have much choice but to pay up.
The wall street — which runs the US government – is interested in squeezing the most amount out of the middle class as possible. And it's actually the easiest thing in the world to do: convince people to pay taxes while giving favorable loopholes that only the rich can exploit to legally avoid paying taxes. Convince people to "invest" their money into funds that are entirely controlled by others.
In fact, having a sizable middle class is preferred for the elite because it keeps the masses fed and entertained while letting the government and the elite covertly raze what they've worked so hard for.
Regardless how you look at it—and whether you actually want to believe it—the "middle class illusion" is coming to an end. You can't have a sustainable society where a large part of the population is defaulting on its credit—credit that's kept artificially cheap thanks to government subsidized loans—because their jobs are rapidly being outsourced to cheaper regions of the world.
Globalization: the dagger in middle class' heart
Globalization is making this easy for risk-takers because it's now easy to move around the world and cherry pick your labor (i.e. hire in a low cost place like India or The Philippines), but the dynamics of this new economy is putting a squeeze on everyone else.
That means if you're reading this and aren't sitting in Bali, Indonesia, Koh Lanta, Thailand or San Miguel, Mexico while building your SaaS business whose goal is to generate $5,000 in monthly revenue from some coffee shop with 20 or 50mbps Internet—you're being squeezed in more ways than you can imagine.
Because someone always needs to be squeezed. Modern economical systems are nothing more than a game of musical chairs. Of course, it won't be the rich (they own "old" capital and are "protected" by the government). It also won't be the poor (there's a limit to how much people can be squeezed; see Baltimore riots).
So, who's left? The dumb and lazy sheeple class which is better known by its other name: the middle class.
(If you ask me, I think that's what the middle class deserves: as far as I'm concerned, you just can't have a sustainable society when you don't take any risk and yet still enjoy the rewards.)
The utopian society predicted by Karl Marx called Communism is exactly what it is: a utopian society bearing no resemblance whatsoever to actual reality.
That means only one thing: the capitalistic class isn't going away anytime soon. Capitalists are here to stay. Capital is here to stay. So, if you're not generating capital, you're losing out. You're losing ground because the only thing you're able to do—labor—is being devalued at an alarming pace.
Capital is back with a vengeance and it's stronger than ever.
The end of jobs
This is both good and bad news. The good news is that it'll give new opportunities for people to transition to this new class and own capital for the first time in their lives; the bad news is that things will be harder for those who refuse to make this transition.
In the not-so-distant future, there will be a redistribution of capital between traditional owners of big capital and newly entrants such as entrepreneurs: you'll either be a location independent nomad enjoying dollar arbitrage or a wage slave permanently trying to make ends meet while working harder and harder to maintain the rapidly decreasing standard of living.
Since capital is being globalized, it's much easier to hire someone who lives in a place with a relatively low cost of living than to hire someone who wants (or demands) to be paid a high salary and also wants some kind of job security plus all kinds of benefits.
This process is called called outsourcing, and while I'm sure you're aware how it works, what you may not be aware is that outsourcing also leads to insourcing; the import of lower quality of living as a result of outsourcing all the key manufacturing and service jobs to some distant land. One doesn't need to look further than a city like Detroit; once the beacon of American industrious might and now a city of ruins like any of the ancient Latin American cities with Mayan or Aztec with beautiful ruins.
Contrary to popular belief, being an employee at a big company is also riskier than running your own business. Much, much riskier. Running your own business gives you more control, you're intricately aware of all the details of the business; when you're an employee you're given a set salary but are shielded from the businesses' operating details.
Perhaps years ago there was some kind of security-a "job for life" of some sorts, but with the borderless world, every job is an implicit temporary contract. The word stability exists only for those who own capital. It doesn't exist for those who merely have money, because as you've already noticed such money can disappear overnight but capital is here to stay.
The New York Times recently published an article describing how being fired and losing one's job is now considered some kind of "graduation." As time goes on, these "graduation ceremonies" will happen more often.
So, what does this mean? While productivity has been slowly rising worldwide, the truth is that increased mobility brings advantages to some while turning into a disadvantage for others. Like money, the world belongs to hustlers. The world belongs to those who make moves. I like to think of all kinds of employment as temporary, regardless whether you're a "temporary" contractor or a "permanent" employee.
The name of the game is capital. In order to survive in this new world, you must have capital. Capital gives you everything; without it you're nothing. The middle class doesn't have any. If you're trading your time for money instead of investing this time into more productive endeavors, you don't have any capital. None of it. Not a single drop of it.
The invisible capital
Along with the decline of the middle class, there has been parallel rise in another type of class: the nomadic entrepreneur. This is no coincidence. This is a class that owes no allegiance to any "defined" group of people.
The nomadic entrepreneur crosses religious, nationalistic and geographical boundaries. The nomadic entrepreneur follows the invisible capital. While he isn't risk-averse, he isn't necessarily a red-blooded risk taker, either. His job is to create and build capital, a new type of capital that has never been available before. This class is native to Globalization and, thus, is able to leverage its benefits in the most efficient way possible.
Back in 2007 when I quit my job and became a permanent nomad, it was pretty rare to meet guys who lived anywhere in the world while making money from the comfort of their laptops. Although I did meet some of those guys, they were usually associated with less savory corners of the Internet: porn and gambling (among others).
When I visited Thailand back in 2004, I spent a week in Chiang Mai, a small and pleasant city in the north of the country. At that time, it was mostly overrun by backpackers who were traveling on a shoestring budget through SE Asia, eating $1 dinners in night markets and sleeping in filthy $2/night hostels.
Nowadays, it's very easy to find such nomadic entrepreneurs. There are everywhere. As someone who's been a nomadic entrepreneur long before it became trendy, it boggles my mind how many people out there are making money and living on their own terms. It's insane. It seems like everyone is doing it.
The majority don't make a lot of money—although some of them make an absolute killing—but certainly make enough to get by on cheap in "3rd world" places such as SE Asia, Latin America or Eastern Europe. Regions with a more laid-back quality of life, fantastic weather, and truly easy living. (My present two-month sojourn on the tropical island of Bali, Indonesia has been amazing).
As I'm getting ready to move to Chiang Mai, Thailand for three months in less than two weeks, I'll be visiting a completely different city from the one I visited ten years ago: these days Chiang Mai is being boldly called by many as "The Digital Nomad Capital of The World." While it'll still have its share of budget backpackers roughing in dirty hostels, most of the people I'll probably be running into guys with monthly revenues easily breaking the four figure mark, some even reaching five figures.
What changed? What changed was the democratization of societies thanks to the Internet and its brother globalization. The world is getting smaller, the borders are being erased, and more and more people are speaking the same language: English.
The beauty of this new world is that, for the first time in human history, you now have access to a completely different way of doing business. In this increasingly borderless world one can create an online presence in San Francisco and ten minutes later take payments from a guy sitting in a warung in Bali, Indonesia, a cantina in Mexico City, or a stolovaya in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. The new rich are being minted every day and it's also a lot easier to become one than you think.
Becoming a nomadic entrepreneur
The key to joining the new rich is what capitalists and oligarchs have known since the beginning of private capitalism: creating, nursing and ultimately owning your own capital—and not trading your precious time for rapidly depreciating pieces of paper that you'll have to surrender to starved and hungry governments anyway.
The rush is on for this new capital. Unlike the rubber barons of the 19th century or the great capitalists of the 20th century, you no longer need to be born with a golden spoon or have a roman numeral affixed to your name in order to mint your own capital. Capital is rapidly becoming a commodity.
The simplest—and most powerful way—is to take what you're good at and expose it to the world. Since most of the things out there are now commodities (e.g., every guy and his dog has a travel blog and an FBA business), the only thing that's real is you. And since we're living in an attention-deficit economy, your primary job is to get noticed before doing anything else. It's ironic that in our world of excesses, the only thing we truly lack is our attention.
Not long ago, entrepreneurship was some buzzword that you study and contemplate being like whether you should order chocolate chip or vanilla ice-cream. It was never something you decided to do automatically.
But that's quickly changing. Instead of it being some abstract topic that you spent countless hours reading and researching while getting accomplished absolutely nothing, it will cease to be a buzzword and become you.
Many of you read what I write because you lack motivation and need a kick in the ass to get where you want to go. Well, I'm here to tell you that soon you won't need motivation, you'll need to do it because you won't have any other choice in the manner.
And why not? Making money on your own terms has never been easier in recorded human history.
While you're perfectly comfortable now with your 500 channels, your Internet porn and other distractions that are designed to keep you "in the middle," soon the word "comfort" will disappear from your vernacular. The longer you delay, the harder the transition to a capital-rich class will be; the longer you delay, the more struggle you'll face in the not-so-distant future. Not feeling the great squeeze yet? You will.
Right now, the decision is no longer whether it makes sense to build your own capital by tapping into the global marketplace or not. Since working online and building your brand is getting quickly commoditized, the question now is how to differentiate yourself. How can you let the world know that you exist? How do you unleash yourself on the world?
The question isn't whether to market to a global audience, the question is what to market. The question isn't whether you should get noticed or not; the question is how to get noticed so that someone like me who doesn't know you personally can still buy what you're selling. Every one of us is unique and talented in one way or another; the challenge becomes of the best way to deliver this value to others in a most efficient way possible.
Pondering these questions now instead of later is precisely how you escape the shackles and tyranny of the broken middle class and rise above the mediocre masses while working your way to becoming the person you've always meant to be and living the life you truly deserve.
This is important. Because in the future that comfortable job where you get paid for doing nothing will disappear, and—depending on how you act—you'll either be working as a wage slave or become a nomadic entrepreneur with all the benefits of earning income in hard currency along with geoarbitraging yourself around the world as you see fit.
Want more? Join The Maverick Insider's Club. Members get access to the premium "Boots on the ground" 2-3X weekly podcast, amazing content, AMA's, and other awesome perks. It's the best community of its kind on the Internet. Click here to learn more and join.
4 Countries That Will Change The Way You Look At The World
James Maverick
Countries are like programming languages; there's no single one that's perfect for everything. They can be great for certain things, but downright terrible for others. Anglo-Saxon countries are great for working and making money, but come up short when it comes to quality of life. Latin American countries have a fantastic quality of life, but can be seedy and downright unpredictable if you're planning to plant roots and open a business.
Nevertheless, what makes a country special is not only its ability to make your life more enjoyable when you're there—but the ability to change the way you think about the world and your place in it. You know you discovered a special place when the country is able to change you long after you've left its magical shores.
After having visited over 85 countries in the past ten years here are several countries that drastically altered how I view the world and myself.
1. Brazil
After bouncing around Latin America for a couple of years, Brazil was the first country that I decided to set up shop and actually live in for a couple of years. I rented an apartment, enrolled in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu classes, and built a great circle of friends. I did something I didn't think I would do in the near future: unpacked my trust backpack and neatly arranged my clothes in one of the dressers.
This was no accident. Brazil is a country where everything is just easy. Meeting people is easy. Enjoying life is easy. Out of all the countries I've been to, there's no other country in the world that makes living so easy. More adjectives that describe Brazil: pure, open, easy going, no-strings-attached, unconditional happiness.
When it comes to human relationships, things are, you guessed it, easy. Brazilian guys are unapologetically male; Brazilian women are unapologetically female. There's never any games, tricks, or manipulation. Things just work. That you can exist just who you are without needing to prove anything to anyone. That who you are is good enough. (If you're wondering, this is exactly the opposite of how it works in any Anglo-Saxon country.)
There's a saying that the best things in life are free. The person who initially said this was probably living in Rio de Janeiro. While Rio de Janeiro isn't the cheapest city in the world, the things that make life enjoyable are free: the beach is free, the street parties are free, the workout equipment on the beaches is free too. For a couple of bucks you can have a nice sandwich or delicious juice from the multitude of street vendors and juice bars.
To be sure, Brazil has its share of problems like pretty much any other country on the planet. Namely corruption and crime. Many of my good friends were robbed of all their belongings; some at night, but many during broad daylight. Which why I recommend to never leave your apartment in a city like Rio de Janeiro with things you're willing to lose. 
Still, the pros greatly overweight the cons. Brazil is an awesome place to immerse yourself in. I don't care if you're experiencing one of the worst ruts in the world, you will be a cured man if you somehow transport yourself to this amazing country. If your life needs a reset, Brazil is your cure.
2. Russia
Whereas Brazil is bright, friendly and exotic, Russia can be dark, unfriendly and even depressing. It's no wonder that Russia's (and the world's) greatest writers such as Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy spend their lives writing about things like existentialism and the meaning of life.
And that's exactly why I love Russia. In a sense, Russia gives me a perspective that's all but absent in the West. It's only when I can appreciate the dark clouds, can I appreciate the bright blue skies. It's only when I can appreciate the struggle and suffering, can I appreciate the happiness and triumph.
While most of my friends prefer American comedies which star permanently happy people who're going through some weirdly superficial "problems" (i.e., breakup), I prefer nothing more than Russian movies. They're usually dark and existential, portraying themes such as police work, corruption, power, wars and its effect on the human condition. Leo Tolstoy would be proud.
3. India
After being a permanent traveler for ten years, I became burned out. My returns to America (to see friends and family) went from quick trips to longer sojourns. America was gradually becoming the "default" destination. I just didn't have any desire to go anywhere else. I didn't want to live anywhere else. t started contemplating leasing an apartment and filling it with cheap Ikea furniture. I also wanted a comfortable executive chair. I wanted, you know,the things that regular people want.
At least, until I discovered India. It was a beautiful balmy night when I landed at Mumbai's International Airport after a quick flight from Bangkok, Thailand. And then it happened: for the first time in over five years, I was suddenly excited of being in a truly interesting and exotic country. I felt like I had taken my very first trip abroad.
The fact that I experienced a culture shock in India says lots, especially since I had just flown in from Thailand—not some Western country like America or England. Don't get me wrong. Thailand is no slouch in the "exotic country department"; it has beautiful Wats (temples), awesome food, and gorgeous white sand beaches. Then there's the culture, which is pretty much as different from the West as they come. Thailand is very exotic.
But whereas Thailand is exotic, India is exotic on an entirely different another level. So much so, that it makes Bangkok, Thailand's capital, feel like a developed Western city. There's nothing wrong with that, but if you're like me who is escaping the developed and consumer West, and wants to be truly culture shocked, then forget Thailand and just fly to India.
Everything about India screams is different. There's the amazingly rich and colorful food. There's the amazingly rich and colorful architecture. Of course, there's the amazingly rich and colorful culture. But you don't need me to tell you this: there's an entire movie industry (Bollywood) that can do that for me.
India overwhelms your senses and makes you forget about all the other countries you've visited. This partly explains why it's also such a polarizing country: you either love it or hate it. You either appreciate the radical difference in culture, or, probably because it clashes with what you find "acceptable," you hate it and can't wait to get out.
As for me, I'm firmly in the former camp. Although I didn't spend much time in India this time around, India is the only country I'm thinking about these days. There's nothing I want more than to roam for 3-6 months around the country. I might just do that this winter.
4. America
I'll cut to the chase: without America, you wouldn't be reading this right now. That's right, there would be no blog. There would be no philosophy, no cultural writing, no existentialism, no self-improvement. There also wouldn't be the catalyst that ignited this blog: my perennial search for understanding the world around me and my place in it.
The reason this blog exists, and the reason I'm able to come up with coherent thoughts and ideas is because of a country called America. But not because America by itself. By itself, America is a regular country, a nation like any other. Like every country in the world, it contains people who work and rest. There are cities filled with roads and cars. There are stores that sell things. There are apartment buildings and houses where these people live.
What makes America special, however, is when you compare it to other countries. That's when things get very interesting. That's when you learn that American way of life and America's values are drastically different than pretty much any other country on this planet (OK, except other English-speaking countries such as Canada and England).
The world is extremely diverse: Argentina is nothing like Thailand; India is nothing like Russia; and Andorra is nothing like China. But with all this diversity, all of the aforementioned countries have more in common with each other than they do with America. There are really two worlds: America and the rest.
America is a country of contradictions. There's a strong capitalistic mentality (i.e., The American Dream), but most people are slaving crazy hours and are making just enough to survive. There's a strong individualistic mindset, but it's also one of the most conformist societies in the world. People connect with others based on specific needs: there's a jogging partner, a gym workout parent, a work colleague and a wingman. Don't get me started on on making an emotional connection and even falling in love. (And, anyway, that's not why you come to America.)
As someone who was born in Eastern Europe and grown up in America, I've always had an ambivalent relationship with the country. I always felt there was something wrong with how human relationships are formed, something that I finally understood after I moved to Brazil.
After many years and many sojourns around the world, I slowly made peace with the country. I no longer hold against it any grudges and realize it can be not only a decent but a fantastic place to live and build something of yourself.
Ultimately, America's greatest gift is that it gives you the ability to understand the world by comparing and contrasting other cultures to it. In a sense, it's like a filter by which other countries—and America itself—begin to make much more sense and the elusive dots of wisdom and knowledge slowly connect.
Want more? Join The Maverick Insider's Club. Members get access to the premium "Boots on the ground" 2-3X weekly podcast, amazing content, AMA's, and other awesome perks. It's the best community of its kind on the Internet. Click here to learn more and join.
It's been four years, and I've almost forgotten how bad it used to be...you know...when I had a real job. It wasn't until I spoke to a few friends that are still in the 9-5 that I remembered how painful it is.
Here are seven reasons why you need to quit your job today, move to Thailand and start your own location independent business.
If you've read the 4-Hour Workweek and have traveled like I have you might already know, but seriously, read this article and turn in your 2 weeks notice.  I'll even include a sample resignation letter below to make it easier for you.
Reason 07:  You get to Sleep in....Everyday.  
I have no idea why people always refer to a normal job as a 9-5 as I've never met anyone who doesn't start work at 8am.  What people don't account for is having to wake up an hour early to get dressed and commute to work.  Some insane people with longer commutes or earlier start times wake up 6...every freaking day.
I set my alarm to wake up at 9am every morning, solely because I really enjoy the mornings and don't want to be lazy.  The funny thing is all of my clients and customers who assume I'm still in California think I'm at the office until 8pm every evening because of the time difference.  Either way, sleeping in until 9am isn't something reserved for the weekends, it's everyday.
My daily alarm, although I usually wake up naturally without it.
Reason 06: Leave the office Early.
Most days I leave the office at 4pm, but that's entirely by choice and only because my CrossFit class starts at five.  But if it's a nice day out and you ask me if I want to hang out at the pool all afternoon, or even skip work entirely, the answer is always yes.  Being your own boss means you never have to sneak out of work, schedule a phoney meeting or ask anyone permission, just go.
On other days when there's nothing to do, I don't sit around pretending to work, I just leave.  My buddy Anton once shut his laptop lid at 11am and said, "i'm done." Imagine telling your boss that.
Hanging out at the infinity pool on a wednesday afternoon.
Reason 05: No stupid Bureaucracy.
One of the biggest time wasters in a normal job is the stupid things that middle and upper management makeup to make your job harder than it needs to be.  Having your own business means you get to make those stupid rules yourself!  Or better yet, don't.
Actually do what needs to get done, and eliminate what doesn't and automate or outsource the rest.  For me I hire a gal to answer all of my customer service phone calls, and she deals with the bureaucracy of filling out manual reports to get paid.  As the employer, I just let it do it's thing and have time to do my thang.  No mandatory meetings, reports, or bs to fill out.
My customer service gals hours.
Reason 04: Work from wherever you want.
Some people ask why I pay money to work in an office when the whole reason of escaping the 9-5 and being your own boss is so you can work from home.  Well, I hate working from home.  I actually enjoy being somewhere surrounded by friends, free coffee and productivity.  What people hate about offices isn't the actual office but being forced to be there and having someone look over your shoulder to make sure you're working.
At coworking office spaces, everyone is their own boss and no one gives a fox if you're watching funny cat videos on youtube, leaving for a 3 hour lunch or if you're actually working or not.  I've worked from coffee shops, by the pool, and even on the beach, but as far as actually getting work done, I really love the setup and environment of coworking spaces.
Best of all, no commute and no traffic.
Photo of me working poolside: Great in theory and good in photos.
Reason 03: It's a lot cheaper than you think.
The biggest reason why people think they can't make the move is fear of not having enough money or needing a job before they come.  Trust me, if you sell all of your crap and have $10,000US in savings, you can easily travel and live for a year if you do it on a budget.
I wrote a book called 12 Weeks in Thailand that explains how I quit my job, moved abroad and managed to give a pretty good life for around $600 a month.
Once you get your income going, you can give an incredible life for what you would have spent for rent alone back home.  Apartments can be had for as low as $150 a month if you want something thai style and extremely basic, or for $650 you can live in a baller suite.
If you can afford to spend $1,500 a month, you can get away with living in a nice place with maid service, eat out 21 meals a week and get a massage every other day.  At that budget you can also squeeze in an office and CrossFit membership too.
Don't let miniscule problems prevent you from doing amazing things. - 12 Week in Thailand Review
Reason 02: Work Towards Building Something.
The number one reason why I went from doing as little as humanly possible at work to actually wanting to come in everyday and be productive is simply because it matters.  When I worked in a cubicle my goal was to do as little work as possible and still get paid for it.  I also knew deep down inside what whatever work I was doing, really didn't matter in the grand scope of things.
Now I'm creating something, even with this blog post, I'm creating something that will float around the internet and reach hundreds of thousands of people over the next five years.  It feels good to create, and it may be the sole reason why we are here on Earth.
But as far as building something, working for yourself, builds equity.  You're building passive income. You're building future income.  For me, I have my book sales and my eCommerce stores that generate income.  Everything else I do, I do because I love it.  I now have freedom. If you got paid a normal salary and decided to stop working tomorrow for whatever reason, your income would most likely stop along with it.  
Having passive income or an automated online business means that even if you're sick, on vacation, or otherwise decided to stop working, money will still come and you still own equity in a business that's actually worth something if you decide to sell it.
Check out all of my monthly income reports here
Don't strive to be lazy, don't hope to be content.  Our lives are shorter than you think and our potential is greater than you can imagine. -Johnny FD
Reason 01: Travel the World and Really Enjoy what life has to offer.
Don't settle for taking a 2 week vacation once a year.  Why would you work all year just so you can visit a place like Thailand for a few weeks when you can just live here?  It's crazy to think that even though my daily life is equivalent to other people's vacations, I still fly somewhere six times a year to take more vacations from my vacations.  
A few days ago I was scuba diving and sipping on coconuts on the island of Koh Phangan.  A few weeks ago I spent the weekend in the ruins of Thailand's old capital, Sukhothai.  A month ago I visited every place I wanted to see in Cambodia.  Why and how?  Because I could, and it was cheap. One of the best things about being based in Thailand is how easy and affordable it is to fly to another country on a mini-holiday.  Even better is that with the visa situation you're forced to leave the country every 2-3 months to extend your visa.  When I was broke, I hated it.  Now I love having an excuse to go on holiday.
Your direct flight options from Chiang Mai.  Flying out of Bangkok triples your choices.
I used to think there were 20 places I wanted to see before I died, and was perfectly content going to Europe for 2 weeks and seeing them all.  Now that idea is ridiculous to me, especially when there's no reason why I can't fly to Amsterdam, work from my laptop for a few weeks, take a train to Berlin where I would rent an apartment for a month or two and settle in.  Then take side trips down to Poland, Budapest, and Switzerland.  You can do all of this and manage your business from your laptop, I recommend a 13" Macbook Air. 
Here are photos from doing the Tough Mudder race in Lake Tahoe, diving with a Whale Shark in Koh Lanta, Jumping in front of a Mayan Ruin in Tikal, Spotting wild pygmy elephants in Borneo,Pouring my own Guinness in Ireland, to cuddling a Wallaby in Australia.  Best of all, by being your own boss, you can work from literally anywhere with an internet connection.  None of this would have been possible if I didn't decide to quit my job and start traveling the world as my own boss.
Random adventures from around the world.  Holidays from my holiday.
How to build your own business and manage it from a laptop.
There are a lot of ways you can make money while being location independent.  The easiest is do whatever you do now, but for yourself and do it from somewhere else.
Have skills?  
Try websites like Upwork.com, Freelancer.com or even Fiverr.com - Start your own consulting business or work as a freelancer.  As long as you are doing it on your own terms, who cares, it's a great first step to start traveling. 
Don't have skills?
Maybe you're a better manager than you would be worker.  Use the above websites to outsource your design, web and other duties and focus on building the actual business.  You can get into Software as a Service, Consulting, Lead Generation, Blogging, Marketing, Writing, eCommerce, Online Test Preparation or Membership Sites.
For me, I fell into writing and eCommerce and it worked.  I make more than I did back home at my normal 9-5 job, spend around half of what I used to spend and use the difference to travel and see the rest of the world.  Best of all, it's my own business, I set my own hours, and I feel like I'm really contributing to something meaningful in life instead of just trying to get by.
Sign up for a course:
Just like how you would spend time going to classes to learn a new skill like accounting, you need to invest both time and money taking classes if you want to learn a new business skill.  I am a member of Anton's Dropshipping Course where he teaches people how to start an online dropship based store from scratch.
I created a course called Earnest Affiliate which teaches the basics of affiliate marketing and making money online with a blog or a website.
Whatever course you end up taking, as there are hundreds out there, just make sure it's from someone you trust or it was recommended.
Ready to quit your job?
Just forward this webpage to your boss and pack your bags!  Not so cheeky?  Copy and paste this sample resignation letter to your boss, print it out on company time, tear up a bit when signing it, then pack your bags!
For more ideas on how to start an online business and actual interviews with entrepreneurs who I've met traveling, listen to The Travel Like a Boss Podcast.  
It's free, it's fun and it's a great show to load up on your iPhone while you sit on your next flight to Thailand, or wherever the world may take you.